.\"Created with GNOME Manpages Editor
.\"http://sourceforge.net/projects/gmanedit2

.\"Replace <program> with the program name, x with the Section Number
.TH mhuxd 8 "April 2012" "" "Daemon for microHam Keyers"

.SH NAME
mhuxd \- Daemon for accessing microHam keyers

..SH SYNOPSIS
.B mhuxd
.RI [ options ]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmhuxd\fP is a daemon that implements the microHam keyer protocol. This protocol allows to multiplex
multiple communication channels over a single serial USB connection. The daemon provides virtual serial ports to allow
hamradio applications to access those channels and make use of the various functions of those keyers.
\fBmhuxd\fP talks to the keyer via an USB serial port (e.g. /dev/ttyUSB0). Prerequisite for this port to be
available is that the kernel driver \fBftdi_sio\fP is available and loaded. Additionally the kernel driver
\fBcuse\fP must be available to enable \fBmhuxd\fP to provide virtual serial ports.
.PP
Currently supported microHam keyers are:
.PP
    CW KEYER (untested)
    DIGI KEYER (untested)
    DIGI KEYER II
    micro KEYER
    micro KEYER II (untested)
    MK2R(+) (untested)
    micro2R (untested) 
.PP
Which virtual serial ports are created depends on the keyer. This is a list of all possible ports:
.PP
   /dev/mhuxd/cat1  Radio control radio 1
   /dev/mhuxd/cat2  Radio control radio 2
   /dev/mhuxd/fsk1  FSK port radio 1
   /dev/mhuxd/fsk2  FSK port radio 2
   /dev/mhuxd/wk1   Winkey port
   /dev/mhuxd/ptt1  PTT port radio 1
   /dev/mhuxd/ptt1  PTT port radio 2

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR

Prints a list of available options

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cfg\fR=\fICFGFILE\fR

Specify a configuration file. Without this option the configuration file is loaded from 
\fB/etc/mhuxd.conf\fP

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log-level\fR=\fILOGLEVEL\fR

Specify the log level. Note that the option LogLevel in \fBmhuxd.conf\fP has precedence and
should be commented out to make use of this switch. Specify one of these values:
.PP
.PD 0
.IP
MUTE   No logging
.PP
.IP
CRIT   Severity critical
.PP
.IP
ERROR  Severity error or higher
.PP
.IP
WARN   Severity warn or higher
.PP
.IP
INFO   Severity info or higher
.PP
.IP
DEBUG0 All severities plus debug info.
.PP
.IP
DEBUG1 like DEBUG0 but even more debug info

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-background\fR

Let \fBmhuxd\fP run in background. Enable logging to syslog. Without this option \fBmhuxd\fP runs in foreground and logging goes to stderr.

.TP
\fB\-\-list-radios\fR

Print a list of radios and correspondig radio codes. These radio codes are microHam specific. 
Some keyers can send radio controll commands on it's own providing that the correct radio
code is configured in \fBmhuxd.conf\fP.

.TP
\fB\-\-list-dev\fR

Print a list of microHam keyers currently connected to any USB port. This list also contains the
serial numbers (see option \fB-s\fP).

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Matthias Moeller, DJ5QV

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report mhuxd bugs to mhuxd@maxec.de
